feat(auto-instrumentations-node): Add "@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node/register" for an agent-like experience (#1400)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js-contrib: metapackages/auto-instrumentations-node/README.md

[![NPM Published Version][npm-img]][npm-url]
[![Apache License][license-image]][license-url]

## About

This module provides a way to auto instrument any Node application to capture telemetry from a number of popular libraries and frameworks.

> You can export the telemetry data in a variety of formats. Exporters can be configured via environment variables.

Author: Users reading this should have some knowledge of what open telemetry is and how it works. So I think "exporting properties/characteristics" will confuse users as it may indicate something else.

The net result is the ability to gather telemetry data from a Node application without any code changes.

> This module also provides a simple way to initialize multiple Node instrumentations.

Reviewer: mmm, then how about something like:

```suggestion
This module also provides a simple way to initialize multiple Node instrumentation in a custom SDK.
```

npm install --save @opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node
```

> ## Usage: Auto Instrumentation

Author: I'm not sure as well. Should the order be switched here?

npm install --save @opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node
```

## Usage: Auto Instrumentation

> This module includes auto instrumentation for all supported instrumentations and all available data exporters.

Author: The only link I found for the list of exporters is [this](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/sdk-environment-variables.md#exporter-selection).
Does it make sense to add it here?

> This module includes auto instrumentation for all supported instrumentations and all available data exporters.

Reviewer: @samimusallam I see you resolved the thread without applying any change or comment. I still support adding the link for useability.

It provides a completely automatic, out-of-the-box experience.

Enable auto instrumentation by requiring this module using the --require flag:

```shell
node --require '@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node/register' app.js
```

If your Node application is encapsulated in a complex run script, you can also set it via an environment variable before running Node.

```shell
env NODE_OPTIONS="--require @opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node/register"
```

The auto instrumentation is highly configurable using environment variables.
Many aspects of the auto instrumentation's behavior can be configured for your needs, such as resource detectors, exporter choice, exporter configuration, trace context propagation headers, and much more.

```shell
export OTEL_TRACES_EXPORTER="otlp"
export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_PROTOCOL="http/protobuf"
export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_COMPRESSION="gzip"
export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_ENDPOINT="https://your-endpoint"
export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS="x-api-key=your-api-key"
export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_HEADERS="x-api-key=your-api-key"
export OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES="service.namespace=my-namespace"

> export OTEL_RESOURCE_DETECTORS="env,host,os"

Reviewer 2: We had this discussion in Python as well, you may want to stick to [language specific environment variable](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/sdk-environment-variables.md#language-specific-environment-variables) for now. There is an open spec issue to add this specific variable but it is blocked: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/issues/2948

Author: Updated with a language-specific variable for now. Hopefully this will be part of the spec at some point.

export OTEL_SERVICE_NAME="client"
export NODE_OPTIONS="--require @opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node/register"
node app.js
```

By default, all SDK resource detectors are used, but you can use the environment variable OTEL_NODE_RESOURCE_DETECTORS to enable only certain detectors, or completely disable them:

- `env`
- `host`
- `os`
- `process`
- `container`
- `alibaba`
- `aws`
- `gcp`
- `all` - enable all resource detectors
- `none` - disable resource detection

For example, to enable only the `env`, `host` detectors:

```shell
export OTEL_NODE_RESOURCE_DETECTORS="env,host"
```

To turn on the auto instrumentation's internal debug logging for troubleshooting, set the following environment variable:

```shell
export OTEL_LOG_LEVEL=debug

> ```

Author: I would add a reference to the documentation for this, but I haven't found any.
For troubleshooting, I think only suggesting `debug` is sufficient as it shouldn't be used in a real-world application anyways.

> ```

Reviewer: Why "debug" and not "verbose" or "all"?
How can users discover what values are valid in this env variable? would they have to dive into code?

I would consider adding some more info about how and when to use this environment variable, and the supported values

> ```

Reviewer 3: How about this link?: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/tree/main/experimental/packages/opentelemetry-sdk-node#configure-log-level-from-the-environment
is that what you looked for to mention the log levels?

> ```

Author: > How about this link?: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/tree/main/experimental/packages/opentelemetry-sdk-node#configure-log-level-from-the-environment is that what you looked for to mention the log levels?

Thanks for the reference! I updated this section to be very similar to the one you referenced.
